Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we will be learning about sets.
Sets are another collection, like lists and tuples
that contain multiple values inside them.
But, of course, there has to be a difference between sets
and the other two otherwise there would be no point to them.
And the key difference is that sets
don't hold order and
sets don't contain duplicate elements.
So, let's have a look at our art friends,
our friends who study art.
And let's say those are Rolf and Anne.
Here, I've defined my first set.
And you can denote a set by using these curly braces
instead of the square brackets or the normal brackets.
Square brackets for a list.
Normal brackets for a tuple.
By using curly braces, Python knows that
you are defining a set.
So, here we've got our first set.
Art friends and now let's define science friends.
So there's Jen and Charlie.
If you want to add to a set,
you just do something like art_friends.add,
and then add Jen.
What this is going to do,
is it's going to add the Jen string
into the art friends set.
And it's going to sort of put it anywhere in that set.
Remember, sets don't keep order so it could be anywhere.
It could be at the start, it could be in the middle,
it could be at the end.
And there is no guarantee on the order being kept
throughout the programme either.
So whenever you print the set,
it could be in a different order.
So, let's print it out.
And run it.
You can see that, in this case,
the Jen string has been printed at the start,
then Anne, and then Rolf.
If you try to do this again,
you'll see that the same set gets printed out twice
because we tried to add a value to the set
that was already there, it didn't happen.
Nothing happened, no error happens,
just the value does not get added.
It's already in there and sets do
not contain duplicate elements,
so nothing gets added to that set.
You can remove things from a set though,
by doing dot, remove.
And now you can see that the second time we printed,
Jen is gone because we removed her in line eight.
So, this is how to work with sets in a very basic form.
But, it doesn't show you why sets are useful.
One of the key use cases about sets,
is that it is very easy to compare one set to another.
For example, ask sets.
What elements are in this set
that are not in this other set?
Or, what elements are common between both sets?
Things like that are why sets are useful.
So let's look at those operations in the next video.
I'll see you there.